---
layout: notice
parent: RAPIDS General Notices
grand_parent: RAPIDS Notices
nav_exclude: true
notice_type: rgn
# Update meta-data for notice
notice_id: 1 # should match notice number
notice_pin: true # set to true to pin to notice page
title: "Stable/Release Branch Renaming to 'main' in v0.15"
notice_author: RAPIDS Ops
notice_status: In Progress
notice_status_color: yellow
# 'notice_status' and 'notice_status_color' combinations:
#   "Proposal" - "blue"
#   "Completed" - "green"
#   "Review" - "purple"
#   "In Progress" - "yellow"
#   "Closed" - "red"
notice_topic: Git Repo Change
notice_rapids_version: "v0.15"
notice_created: 2020-07-13
# 'notice_updated' should match 'notice_created' until an update is made
notice_updated: 2020-08-26
---

## Overview

RAPIDS has decided to follow other Open Source projects in renaming their "default" git branch to `main`. Starting with the `v0.15` release, the existing RAPIDS stable/release branch will be removed and all references should use the `main` branch going forward.

>**NOTE:** RAPIDS uses `branch-X.Y` as our GitHub default branch for development; however, our stable/release branch is typically the "default" branch for others and new git projects.

For more information read the [GitHub docs](https://github.com/github/renaming/) detailing their plan for renaming branches.

## Status

### Updates

- **10-Jul-2020** - `main` branches were added to all repos with an existing stable/release branch
- **15-Jul-2020** - Documentation with outdated references were updated with PRs to `main`
- **Completed** - PRs to update scripts and other mentions will be merged into `branch-0.15` and then into `main`
- **On-going** - Release `v0.15` is occurring and using the `main` branch; the old branches will be removed post-release

## Impact

Any other projects or developers referring to our current stable/release branch will no longer work or may redirect incorrectly. This includes search and web links that link to GitHub.

From the [GitHub docs](https://github.com/github/renaming/) on renaming, there will be some redirects in place; however, they will redirect to the GitHub "default" branch which in our case means links to stable/release will redirect to our development branch. This may cause some confusion, but we will do our best to ensure the links are updated.

Users that find outdated links should open an issue in the repo they have been found. For updates on this docs site or [rapids.ai](https://rapids.ai), file an issue [here](https://github.com/rapidsai/docs/issues/new/choose).
