---
layout: notice
parent: RAPIDS Support Notices
grand_parent: RAPIDS Notices
nav_exclude: true
notice_type: rsn
# Update meta-data for notice
notice_id: 30 # should match notice number
notice_pin: true # set to true to pin to notice page
title: "Docker Image Changes in Release v23.06"
notice_author: RAPIDS TPM
notice_status: In Projgess
notice_status_color: yellow
# 'notice_status' and 'notice_status_color' combinations:
#   "Proposal" - "blue"
#   "Completed" - "green"
#   "Review" - "purple"
#   "In Progress" - "yellow"
#   "Closed" - "red"
notice_topic: Platform Support Change
notice_rapids_version: "v23.06+"
notice_created: 2023-04-20
# 'notice_updated' should match 'notice_created' until an update is made
notice_updated: 2023-04-20
---

## Overview

RAPIDS is making a number of changes to its end-user Docker images to improve functionality, performance, and maintainability. These changes are targeted to be introduced in the RAPIDS 23.06 release.

While many of these changes should be seamless to users, some of them may be breaking. These breaking changes include:
rapidsai/rapidsai-core is deprecated and superceded by rapidsai/rapidsai and rapidsai/rapidsai-notebooks
"Runtime" images (eg rapidsai/rapidsai:23.02-cuda11.8-runtime-ubuntu22.04-py3.10) are replaced by the rapidsai/rapidsai-notebooks docker repo
IMAGE_TYPE will be removed from image tags. Change ${RAPIDS_VER}-cuda${CUDA_VER}-${IMAGE_TYPE}-${LINUX_VER}-py${PYTHON_VER} to ${RAPIDS_VER}-cuda${CUDA_VER}-${LINUX_VER}-py${PYTHON_VER}
arm64 image repositories (eg rapidsai/rapidsai-arm64) are deprecated and superceded by multi-architectural images in rapidsai/rapidsai and rapidsai/rapidsai-notebooks
Images will not longer default to the root user. Instead they will use non-root user rapids
a. To use previous behavior, supply --user root to the docker run command
The base image will start an ipython REPL instead of a bash shell
a. To use previous behavior, supply a docker run CMD of bash (eg docker run -it ${IMAGE} bash)
The notebooks image will start jupyter-lab in the foreground instead of running in the background and starting a bash shell.
a. To use previous behavior, supply a docker run CMD of bash (eg docker run -it ${IMAGE} bash) and run jupyter-lab in the background
The notebooks directory in the notebooks image will not longer contain the full source code git clone of RAPIDS repositories
a. To use previous behavior, start the container and git clone ${RAPIDS_GIT_URL} for each required RAPIDS repository
The rapids conda environment is removed and replaced by the base conda environment
The environment variables `EXTRA_APT_PACKAGES` & `EXTRA_YUM_PACKAGES` will no longer be supported.

The devel images will be removed and replaced by devcontainers (such as those recently added to cuSpatial for example)


Further details and the full list of changes can be found in the associated tracking issue: https://github.com/rapidsai/docker/issues/539


## Impact

Users should be particularly aware of the breaking changes noted above. In order to extend the transition time for impacted users, RAPIDS will continue to publish containers in the old namespace (i.e. rapidsai/rapidsai-core) for one additional release until 23.08.

