---
layout: notice
parent: RAPIDS Support Notices
grand_parent: RAPIDS Notices
nav_exclude: true
notice_type: rsn
# Update meta-data for notice
notice_id: 50 # should match notice number
notice_pin: true # set to true to pin to notice page

title: "Dropping of UCX-Py project in RAPIDS Release v25.10"
notice_author: RAPIDS TPM
notice_status: In Progress
notice_status_color: yellow
# 'notice_status' and 'notice_status_color' combinations:
#   "Proposal" - "blue"
#   "Completed" - "green"
#   "Review" - "purple"
#   "In Progress" - "yellow"
#   "Closed" - "red"
notice_topic: Platform Support Change
notice_rapids_version: "v25.10+"
notice_created: 2025-07-10
# 'notice_updated' should match 'notice_created' until an update is made
notice_updated: 2025-07-10
---

## Overview

RAPIDS will stop publishing UCX-Py packages in RAPIDS Release v25.10, scheduled for October 09, 2025. UCX-Py 0.45 in RAPIDS Release v25.08 will be its last. Development for the UCX-Py repository will stop, the repository will be archived and no new packages will be published. Users are advised to switch to the new [UCXX](https://github.com/rapidsai/ucxx/) project.

## Impact

Development for the UCX-Py repository will cease and no new packages will be published. UCX-Py will be dropped from the `rapids` conda metapackage and RAPIDS Docker containers.


## Continued accelerated communication support

Dask-CUDA and Dask/Distributed users may continue to benefit from UCX support through the new UCXX project. Python developers will continue to be supported as well. Additionally, UCXX now provides a C++ library to interface with UCX.

### Dask-CUDA

Dask-CUDA users have been automatically migrated. Beginning with RAPIDS v25.08, if the `distributed-ucxx` package is installed, setting `protocol="ucx"` will now automatically use UCXX instead of UCX-Py.
If `distributed-ucxx` is not installed the old UCX-Py will still be be used and a warning will be emitted to advise updating.
Setting `protocol="ucxx"` always uses UCXX and will continue to work. In RAPIDS v25.08 users can still continue to use UCX-Py by setting `protocol="ucx-old"`, but this option will be removed in RAPIDS v25.10.

### Dask/Distributed

Dask/Distributed will require installing the `distributed-ucxx` package and setting `protocol="ucxx"`. After the migration is completed, `protocol="ucx"` will also use UCXX, provided the `distributed-ucxx` package is installed.

### Python developers

Python developers who directly used UCX-Py via `import ucp` will continue to be supported via `import ucxx`, this requires the `ucxx` package to be installed. There may be minor changes, users are advised to consult the API documentation.

### C++

With the introduction of UCXX, C++ developers can also benefit from a proper C++ library to interface with UCX via the new `libucxx` package, providing a RAII interface along with additional features.
