---
layout: notice
parent: RAPIDS Support Notices
grand_parent: RAPIDS Notices
nav_exclude: true
notice_type: rsn
# Update meta-data for notice
notice_id: 47 # should match notice number
notice_pin: true # set to true to pin to notice page

title: "Changes to RAPIDS branching strategy in 25.10"
notice_author: RAPIDS Ops
notice_status: In Progress
notice_status_color: yellow
# 'notice_status' and 'notice_status_color' combinations:
#   "Proposal" - "blue"
#   "Completed" - "green"
#   "Review" - "purple"
#   "In Progress" - "yellow"
#   "Closed" - "red"
notice_topic: Development Process Change
notice_rapids_version: "v25.10+"
notice_created: 2025-05-05
# 'notice_updated' should match 'notice_created' until an update is made
notice_updated: 2025-07-10
---

## Overview

RAPIDS will be migrating to a new branching strategy after the 25.08 release. The new
strategy will use a single long-lived branch called `main`, which all pull requests
should target. In preparation for a release, a release branch will be created from
`main` and any remaining pull requests for that release should be merged into the
release branch.

Releases and hot fixes will be tagged from the release branch.

The transition to this new strategy will commence for all RAPIDS repositories
during the 25.10 development cycle, after the 25.08 release is completed.

## Impact

After a repository has switched to the new strategy, existing local clones of
repository may need to be updated to use the new `main` branch.

Assuming you have a remote called `upstream` that points to `rapidsai/<repo>`,
you can update your local clone with the following commands:

```bash
git branch -m main legacy-main
git branch -m branch-25.10 main
git fetch upstream
git branch -u upstream/main main
git remote set-head upstream -a
```

After completing the above steps, if you want to update your fork with the new
`main` branch, you can do so with (assuming your fork is called `origin`):

```bash
git push origin legacy-main:legacy-main
git push origin main:main --force
gh repo edit $USERNAME/$REPO --default-branch main
```

The original `main` branch will still be available as `legacy-main` if needed.

Below is a table comparing the current and new branching strategies. Here, the current release is `YY.MM` (e.g. 25.08) and we denote the next release as `<YY.MM-next>` (e.g. 25.10).

Aspect | Current (25.08) | New Branching Strategy (25.10+)
-- | -- | --
Default Branch | Switched per release (e.g. `branch-YY.MM`, then `branch-<YY.MM-next>`) | Always `main` (latest and greatest)
Feature PRs | Target current default branch; retarget manually if moving to a different release | Always target `main`. During release preparation, pull requests may need to be re-targeted to the release branch.
Release Branching | No specific branch, `branch-YY.MM` is the release branch | Create `release/YY.MM` for releases, used during burndown & code freeze
Burndown Process | `branch-<YY.MM-next>` is created | Bump `main` to `<YY.MM-next>.00`, tag `v<YY.MM-next>.00a`, create branch `release/YY.MM`, enable forward merges from `release/YY.MM` → `main`
Code Freeze | Only admin-merges to `branch-YY.MM` | Only admin-merges to `release/YY.MM`
Release | Merge `branch/YY.MM` → `main`; tag `vYY.MM.00` on `main` | Merge `release/YY.MM` → `main`; disable forward-merges from `release/YY.MM` → `main`; tag `vYY.MM.00` on `release/YY.MM`
Hotfixes | Cherry-pick directly onto `branch-YY.MM`, follow release process | Create branch `hotfix/YY.MM` from pre-tag commit on `release/YY.MM`, open PRs to `release/YY.MM` and `main`, follow release process
Tooling | Ops-bot for forward-mergers, release scripts | Minimal custom tooling; leverage standard GitHub workflows

External repositories that depend on RAPIDS shared-workflows should be updated to use the `main` branch or new tags for each release. The RAPIDS team will work with external repositories to ensure a smooth transition.
